# Python PLEXOS API
https://github.com/EnergyExemplar/Python-PLEXOS-API

A repository of simple Python examples for use with the PLEXOS API. 

Please note that this repository is not a supported product of Energy Exemplar, but rather a help to the user which is a free time activity for dedicated fans of the product.

## Migrating from prior versions to PLEXOS 9 API and newer

### Python's .NET interop components only work with .NET 4.8.
That means you need to install an additional software component to use the PLEXOS API 
with Python. It is available on the Energy Exemplar customer portal (you have to scroll 
nearly to the bottom).
### The primary components to import have changed a bit.
Before
```
sys.path.append('C:/Program Files (x86)/Energy Exemplar/PLEXOS 8.1/')
clr.AddReference('PLEXOS7_NET.Core')
```
After
```
sys.path.append('C:/Program Files/Energy Exemplar/PLEXOS 9.0 API')
clr.AddReference('PLEXOS_NET.Core')
```
**Note** *the new location to add to the ```PATH``` references the install location of
the new software components mentioned above, and the missing ```7``` in the name
of the reference. Also if you are migrating from an older PLEXOS version, ```(x86)```
is no longer in the default installation folder.*
### Likewise, a key ```import``` statement has changed.
Before
```
from PLEXOS7_NET.Core import DatabaseCore
```
After
```
from PLEXOS_NET.Core import DatabaseCore
```
Again a missing ```7```.

### There is a new reference that contains some of the enumerations that used to be in EEUTILITY.
Before
```
clr.AddReference('EEUTILITY')
```
After
```
clr.AddReference('EEUTILITY')
clr.AddReference('EnergyExemplar.PLEXOS.Utility')
```
### There is a corresponding modification to import the enumerations that are in this new component.
Before
```
from EEUTILITY.Enums import *
```
After
```
from EEUTILITY.Enums import *
from EnergyExemplar.PLEXOS.Utility.Enums import *
```

### Using Enumerations in Python scripts

Prior to PLEXOS API 10.0 R04 the API functions were coded to accept values from enums defined in the .Net libraries. This approach had always meant that the API could only reliably operate on databases created by the same version as the API. This would lead to issues when users would upgrade PLEXOS but still needed to process databases or solutions which were generated by the previous version of PLEXOS. To address this issue, the API no longer relies on many of those enumerations. Instead, there are a new set of functions which fetch a dictionary of values where the key is similar to what the former enumeration name would have been. These are:

```
FetchAllClassIds()
FetchAllCollectionIds()
FetchAllAttributeEnums()
FetchAllPropertyEnums()
```

Fetch these dictionaries once in your script and use them in place of the former enumerations.

Before
```
results = sol.QueryToList(
    SimulationPhaseEnum.STSchedule,
    CollectionEnum.SystemGenerators, 
    '',
    '',
    PeriodEnum.FiscalYear,
    SeriesTypeEnum.Values, 
    str(int(SystemOutGeneratorsEnum.Generation))
    )
```
After
```
collectionEnums = sol.FetchAllCollectionIds()
propertyEnums = sol.FetchAllPropertyEnums()

results = sol.QueryToList(
    SimulationPhaseEnum.STSchedule,
    collectionEnums["SystemGenerators"], 
    '',
    '',
    PeriodEnum.FiscalYear,
    SeriesTypeEnum.Values, 
    str(propertyEnums["SystemGenerators.Generation"])
    )
```

**Note** *there is no more need for "Out" to appear in collection names.*

Fetch functions return a .Net dictionary, not a Python dictionary. To convert, if needed, simply call (eg):
```
collectionEnums = dict(sol.FetchAllCollectionIds())
```

# PLEXOS® for Power Systems
PLEXOS® Integrated Energy Model (PLEXOS) is tried-and-true simulation software that
uses state-of-the-art mathematical optimisation combined with the latest data
handling and visualisation and distributed computing methods, to provide a 
high-performance, robust simulation system for electric power, water and gas that is 
leading edge yet open and transparent. PLEXOS meets the demands of energy market
participants, system planners, investors, regulators, consultants and analysts alike 
with a comprehensive range of features seamlessly integrating electric, water, gas 
and heat production, transportation and demand over simulated timeframes from minutes
to 10’s of years, all delivered through a common simulation engine with easy-to-use 
interface and integrated data platform. 

PLEXOS is the fastest and most sophisticated software available today, and also the
most cost-effective.

# PLEXOS Licensing
PLEXOS® licensing is *not* included with the license for these examples. These
scripts are therefore only useful to those with current PLEXOS licensing. 
Furthermore, these scripts are *NOT* a supported part of the PLEXOS software. They
are only illustrative of uses that could be made of the PLEXOS API by PLEXOS
licensees.

For assistance with PLEXOS licensing, please visit

https://www.energyexemplar.com/contact-us

# Development Environment
The authors are primarily using Python version 3.x along with the PythonNet
repository.

Python for .NET --> https://pythonnet.github.io/

Visual Studio Code --> https://code.visualstudio.com/

Energy Exemplar and PLEXOS --> https://portal.energyexemplar.com/
